---
layout: link
status: publish
published: true
title: Wireshark 2.0
origlink: https://blog.wireshark.org/2015/11/let-me-tell-you-about-wireshark-2-0/
date: 2015-11-10 17:05:00 +0100
categories:
- Tech
tags:
- unix
- networking
- linux
- qt
- sniffing
---

Proprio in questi giorni è stato reso disponibile **Wireshark 2.0**.

> Actually, quite a few things have changed. The user interface has been completely rewritten using a different interface library (Qt). It has been streamlined so that you can work faster and it should have a better look and feel on every platform. The screenshots above are similar because we’ve also tried to ensure that the new UI is familiar to current users. The features you’re used to are still there and in the same place (or at least nearby). They should work much more smoothly, however.

Tra le cose importanti, oltre ai grafici e a un piccolo redesign dell'interfaccia grafica, abbiamo anche il fatto che tutto quanto **il frontend è stato riscritto in Qt**, il che significa che ad esempio non abbiamo più bisogno di **X11** per eseguire Wireshark su Mac. Un'altra novità che a me è piaciuta tantissimo è questa:

> Intelligent scrollbar. As you scroll through the packet list you might notice that the scroll bar itself looks odd. It now features a map of nearby packets, similar to the “minimap” available in many modern text editors. The number of packets shown in the map is the same as the number of physical vertical pixels in your scrollbar. The more pixels you have, the more packets you can see. In other words, if you use Wireshark regularly you now have a legitimate business case for a retina display.

Insomma, che dire: andate, e scaricate :-P
